![demo image] (https://github.com/dartmouth-cs98/hack-a-thing-1-98hackone/blob/master/ziemer_hackathing1UI.PNG)
This project was bootstrapped with [Create React App](https://github.com/facebook/create-react-app). 

(The 'backend' folder was bootstrapped with express-generator)

This is my first pass attempt at web development. Almost everything here was created with the above npm command, I am starting to learn what all the pieces are and how everything works!

As of first commit: I changed the app from the default page to just be blank and say hello world (also deleted some files). 

As of second commit: Have a couple components working together with events/state etc. Basic styling. 

As of third commit: I added a node backend based on a tutorial and a MongoDB cluster in the cloud. 
This is connected to a mongoDB cluster that I created for free and have a single collection storing greetings. The app now can store greetings and retrieve the most recently stored entry. Still looks pretty basic but there are a lot of moving parts. The backend is in a folder ('backend') and is mostly generated by express-generator in npx, but I made a bunch of modifications following the tutorial and adding a POST handler to update the database (and changing the GET to retrieve the most recent greeting).

As of fourth commit: I did some more learning about CSS to make the overall app look a tiny bit better (still a lot to learn) and learned more about parameters to different HTTP methods by adding a username modifier to the most recent greeting DB example. This allows different users to have their own most recent greetings (though there is no authentication). For example, if I type "Kyle Ziemer" into the username portion, send "Hi there" to the backend/DB, and then type in "John Doe" into the username and attempt to refresh the most recent greeting, the output will be whatever John Doe put in last. This is a very crude attempt to have persistent user information and improve my querying skills for MongoDB, something I think could be useful. 

## What I attempted to build 
This is my first attempt at creating a functioning web page using react. I have little to no experience with html and javascript, so I was learning about those technologies as I was reading through the react documentation as well. Some description is above, but initially I built a basic page that has some output, input, and logic to change the output based on a user event. Though that functionality was pretty rudimentary, I learned a lot about how web pages/react works so I decided to just leave that there anyways. After I had the basics of the frontend down, I wanted to get a better understanding of how a real application works, with a backend and some form of persistent data storage. To that end, I built a simple component that contains a couple fields, specificying a username and a greeting. One button will send the typed greeting to a backend, which will store that greeting in a MongoDB cluster, with the greeting associated with the entered username (more usage info in the blurb on fourth commit). Overall the UI is pretty simple and ugly, but there is a good amount of infrastructure behind the scenes. 

## Who did what
Worked alone
## What I learned
I learned almost everything I currently know about react, js/html, web development in general. In the first portion of the hackathing, I learned the very basics of how web UIs work and what different html elements refer to. I learned how information about user actions is stored in various components in react, what a component is and how it is useful, and how different (react) components can be related to each other and interact to produce reactions on a screen. I also has a very brief introduction to CSS files and how to style a page (though as you can see I still have a lot to learn). After learning some very basics of web development and react, I started learning more about backend/routing infrastructure, with help of a tutorial below. That tutorial helped me setup the basic entry points for a backend/API, which I then expanded to implement very basic logic with a MongoDB cluster I setup in the cloud. I had never used MongoDB before but I have worked with some SQL, so the basic ideas made sense. I think I made decent progress on a solution in the time I spent, and I didn't encounter a ton of bugs (longest lasted about an hour getting the backend running), so I would say I was encouraged by this hackathing and would like to potentially use some of the technologies I used in my group project. Even if the project I end up working on isn't a website for a browser directly, I feel more comfortable using react/js so I could probably pick up react-native more quickly and I have a better understanding of how dynamic UIs work in general, which is something I haven't had much formal academic instruction in. 
## What didn't work
Overall everything seemed to work in the end. I had a little bit of trouble with the environment setups, particularly with the backend, which ended up being caused by my user directory having a space in it. Otherwise I would say the main thing I struggled with was the styling. I used some CSS but my understanding of how html divs and other containers work is pretty rudimentary. I also have much to learn still with react/web development, as I'm sure someone experienced would see many ways my soltution is "hacky," as I mostly consulted basic examples and boring documentation that doesn't always lead to best practices. 

## Tutorials consulted:
* [How to create a react app:] (https://reactjs.org/docs/create-a-new-react-app.html)
* [Introductory React tutorial I used to see how to apply concepts. I didn't do the tutorial directly but used some of the patterns for my simple UI] (https://reactjs.org/tutorial/tutorial.html#overview)
* [General concepts and examples on how to use react (several of the pages in 'Main concepts'):] (https://reactjs.org/docs/handling-events.html)
* [Getting started blueprint for writing a backend:] (https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/create-a-react-frontend-a-node-express-backend-and-connect-them-together-c5798926047c/)
* [Info on how to get a free MongoDB cluster up and running:] (https://docs.atlas.mongodb.com/getting-started/)
